federalist 37 concerning the
difficulties of the convention in
devising a proper form of government
from the daily advertiser friday january
1788 madison to the people of the state
of new york
in reviewing the defects of the existing
confederation and showing that they
cannot be supplied by a government of
less energy than that before the public
several of the most important principles
of the latter fell of course under
consideration
but as the ultimate object of these
papers is to determine clearly and fully
the merits of this constitution and the
expediency of adopting it
our plan cannot be complete without
taking a more critical and thorough
survey of the work of the convention
without examining it on all sides
comparing it in all its parts
and calculating its probable effects
that this remaining task may be executed
under impressions conducive to a just
and fair result
some reflections must in this place be
indulged which kander previously
suggests
it is a misfortune inseparable from
human affairs
that public measures are rarely
investigated with that spirit of
moderation which is essential to a just
estimate of their real tendency to
advance or obstruct the public good
and that the spirit is more apt to be
diminished than promoted by those
occasions which require an unusual
exercise of it
to those who have been led by experience
to attend to this consideration
it could not appear surprising that the
act of the convention which recommends
so many important changes and
innovations
which may be viewed in so many lights
and relations and which touches the
springs of so many passions and
interests
should find or excite dispositions
unfriendly both on one side and on the
other to a fair discussion and accurate
judgment of its merits in some it has
been too evident from their own
publications
that they have scanned the proposed
constitution not only with a
predisposition to censure but with a
predetermination to condemn
as the language held by others betrays
an opposite predetermination or bias
which must render their opinions also of
little moment in the question
in placing however these different
characters on a level with respect to
the weight of their opinions i wish not
to insinuate that there may not be a
material difference in the purity of
their intentions
it is but just to remark in favor of
that latter description
that as our situation is universally
admitted to be peculiarly critical
and to require indispensably that
something should be done for our relief
the predetermined patron of what has
been actually done may have taken his
bias from the weight of these
considerations as well as from
considerations of a sinister nature
the predetermined adversary on the other
hand can have been governed by no venial
motive whatever
the intentions of the first may be
upright as they may on the contrary be
culpable
the views of the last cannot be upright
and must be culpable
but the truth is that these papers are
not addressed to persons falling under
either of these characters
they solicit the attention of those only
who add to a sincere zeal for the
happiness of their country
a temper favorable to a just estimate of
the means of promoting it
persons of this character will proceed
to an examination of the plans submitted
by the convention not only without a
disposition to find or to magnify
faults but will see the propriety of
reflecting that a faultless plan was not
to be expected
nor will they barely make allowances for
the errors which may be chargeable on
the fallibility to which the convention
as a body of men were liable but we'll
keep in mind that they themselves
also are but men and ought not to assume
an infallibility and re-judging the
fallible opinions of others
with equal readiness it will be
perceived that besides these inducements
to candor
many allowances ought to be made for the
difficulties inherent in the very nature
of the undertaking referred to the
convention
the novelty of the undertaking
immediately strikes us it has been shown
in the course of these papers that the
existing confederation is founded on
principles which are fallacious that we
must consequently change this first
foundation
and with it the superstructure resting
upon it it has been shown that the other
confederacies which could be consulted
as precedents have been vitiated by the
same erroneous principles
and can therefore furnish no other light
than that of beacons which give warning
of the course to be shunned without
pointing out that which ought to be
pursued
the most that the convention could do in
such a situation was to avoid the errors
suggested by the past experience of
other countries
as well as of our own and to provide a
convenient mode of rectifying their own
errors as future experiences may unfold
them
among the difficulties encountered by
the convention a very important one must
have lain in combining the requisite
stability and energy in government with
the inviolable attention due to liberty
into the republican form
without substantially accomplishing this
part of their undertaking
they would have very imperfectly
fulfilled the object of their
appointment or the expectation of the
public
yet that it could not be easily
accomplished will be denied by no one
who is unwilling to betray
his ignorance of the subject energy in
government
is essential to that security against
external and internal danger and to that
prompt and salutary execution of the
laws which enter into the very
definition of good government
stability in government is essential to
national character and to the advantages
annexed to it
as well as to that repose and confidence
in the minds of the people which are
among the chief blessings of civil
society
an irregular and mutable legislation is
not more an evil in itself than it is
odious to the people
and it may be pronounced with assurance
that the people of this country
enlightened as they are with regard to
the nature and interested as the great
body of them are
in the effects of good government will
never be satisfied till some remedy be
applied to the vicissitudes and
uncertainties which characterize the
state administrations
on comparing however these valuable
ingredients with the vital principles of
liberty we must perceive at once the
difficulty of mingling them together in
their due proportions
the genius of republican liberty seems
to demand on one side not only that all
power should be derived from the people
but that those entrusted with it should
be kept in independence on the people
by a short duration of their
appointments and that even during this
short period the trust should be placed
not in a few
but a number of hands stability on the
contrary requires that the hands in
which power is lodged should continue
for a length of time the same
a frequent change of men will result
from a frequent return of elections
and a frequent change of measures from a
frequent change of men whilst energy in
government requires not only a certain
duration of power
but the execution of it by a single hand
how far the convention may have
succeeded in this part of their work
will better appear on a more accurate
view of it from the cursory view here
taken
it must clearly appear to have been an
arduous part
not less arduous must have been the task
of marking the proper line of partition
between the authority of the general and
that of the state governments
every man will be sensible of this
difficulty in proportion as he has been
accustomed to contemplate and
discriminate objects extensive and
complicated in their nature
the faculties of the mind itself have
never yet been distinguished and defined
with satisfactory precision by all the
efforts of the most acute and
metaphysical philosophers
sense perception judgment desire
volition
memory imagination are found to be
separated by such delicate shades and
minute gradations that their boundaries
have eluded the most subtle
investigations
and remain a pregnant source of
ingenious disquisitions and controversy
the boundaries between the great
kingdoms of nature and still more
between the various provinces and lesser
portions into which they are subdivided
afford another illustration of the same
important truth
the most sagacious and laborious
naturalists have never yet succeeded in
tracing with certainty the line which
separates the district of vegetable life
from the neighboring region of
unorganized matter or which marks the
ermination of the former and the
commencement of the animal empire
a still greater obscurity lies in the
distinctive characters by which the
objects in each of these great
departments of nature have been arranged
and assorted
when we pass from the works of nature in
which all the delineations are perfectly
accurate
and appear to be otherwise only from the
imperfection of the eye which surveys
them to the institutions of man in which
the obscurity arises as well from the
object itself as from the organ by which
it is contemplated
we must perceive the necessity of
moderating still further our
expectations and hopes from the efforts
of human sagacity
experience has instructed us that no
skill in the science of government has
yet been able to discriminate and define
with sufficient certainty
its three great provinces the
legislative executive
and judiciary or even the privileges and
powers of the different legislative
branches
questions daily occur in the course of
practice which prove the obscurity which
reigns in these subjects and which
puzzle the greatest adepts in political
science
the experience of ages with the
continued and combined labors of the
most enlightened legislatures and
jurists
has been equally unsuccessful in
delineating the several objects and
limits of different codes of law and
different tribunals of justice
the precise extent of the common law and
the statute law the maritime
law the ecclesiastical law the law of
corporations and other local laws and
customs
remains still to be clearly and finally
established in great britain where
accuracy in such subjects has been more
industriously pursued than in any other
part of the world
the jurisdiction of her several courts
general and local of law of equity of
admiralty etc
is not less a source of frequent and
intricate discussions sufficiently
denoting the indeterminate limits by
which they are respectively
circumscribed
all new laws though penned with the
greatest technical skill and passed on
the fullest and most mature deliberation
are considered as more or less obscure
and equivocal until their meaning be
liquidated and ascertained by a series
of particular discussions and
adjudications
besides the obscurity arising from the
complexity of objects
and the imperfection of the human
faculties the medium through which the
conceptions of men are conveyed to each
other adds a fresh embarrassment
the use of words is to express ideas
perspicuity therefore requires not only
that the ideas should be distinctly
formed but that they should be expressed
by words distinctly and exclusively
appropriate to them but no language is
so copious as to supply words and
phrases for every complex idea or so
correct as not to include many
equivocally denoting different
ideas hence it must happen that however
accurately objects may be discriminated
in themselves
and however accurately the
discrimination may be considered the
definition of them may be rendered
inaccurate by the inaccuracy of the
terms in which it is delivered and this
unavoidable inaccuracy
must be greater or less according to the
complexity and novelty of the objects
defined
when the almighty himself condescends to
address mankind in their own language
his meaning luminous as it must be is
rendered dim and doubtful by the cloudy
medium through which it is communicated
here then are three sources of vague and
incorrect definitions
indistinctness of the object
imperfection of the organ of conception
inadequateness of the vehicle of ideas
any one of these must produce a certain
degree of obscurity
the convention in delineating the
boundary between the federal and state
jurisdictions
must have experienced the full effect of
them all
to the difficulties already mentioned
may be added the interfering pretensions
of the larger and smaller states
we cannot earn supposing that the former
would contend for a participation in the
government
fully proportioned to their superior
wealth and importance
and that the latter would not be less
tenacious of the equality at present
enjoyed by them
we may well suppose that neither side
would entirely yield to the other and
consequently that the struggle could be
terminated only by compromise
it is extremely probable also that after
the ratio of representation had been
adjusted this very compromise
must have produced a fresh struggle
between the same parties to give such a
turn to the organization of the
government and to the distribution of
its powers
as would increase the importance of the
branches in forming which they had
respectively obtained the greatest share
of influence there are features in the
constitution which warrant each of these
suppositions
and as far as either of them is well
founded it shows that the convention
must have been compelled to sacrifice
theoretical propriety to the force of
extraneous considerations
nor could it have been the large and
small states only which would marshal
themselves in opposition to each other
on various points
other combinations resulting from a
difference of local position and policy
must have created additional
difficulties as every state may be
divided into different districts
and its citizens into different classes
which give birth to contending interests
and local jealousies
so the different parts of the united
states are distinguished from each other
by a variety of circumstances which
produce a like effect on a larger scale
and although this variety of interests
for reasons sufficiently explained in a
former paper may have a salutary
influence on the administration of the
government when formed
yet everyone must be sensible of the
contrary influence which must have been
experienced in the task of forming it
would it be wonderful if under the
pressure of all these difficulties the
convention should have been forced into
some deviations from that artificial
structure and regular symmetry which
an abstract view of the subject might
lead an ingenious theorist to bestow on
a constitution planned in his closet or
in his imagination
the real wonder is that so many
difficulties should have been surmounted
and surmounted with the unanimity almost
as unprecedented as it must have been
unexpected
it is impossible for any man of candor
to reflect on this circumstance
without partaking of the astonishment it
is impossible for the man of pious
reflection not to perceive in it a
finger of that almighty hand which has
been so frequently and signally extended
to our relief in the critical stages of
the revolution
we had on occasion in a former paper to
take notice of the repeated trials which
have been unsuccessfully made in the
united netherlands for reforming the
painful and notorious vices of their
constitution
the history of almost all the great
councils in consultations held among
mankind
for reconciling their discordant
opinions assuaging their mutual
jealousies and adjusting their
respective interests
is a history of factions contentions and
disappointments
and may be classed among the most dark
and degraded pictures which display the
infirmities and depravities of the human
character
if in a few scattered instances a
brighter aspect is presented
they serve only as exceptions to
admonish us of the general truth
and by their luster to darken the gloom
of the adverse prospect to which they
are contrasted
in revolving clauses from which these
exceptions result
and applying them to the particular
instances before us we are necessarily
led to two important conclusions
the first is that the convention must
have enjoyed in a very singular degree
an exemption from the pestilential
influence of party animosities
the disease most incident to
deliberative bodies and most apt to
contaminate their proceedings
the second conclusion is that all the
deputations composing the convention
were satisfactorily accommodated by the
final act
or were induced to accede to it by a
deep conviction of the necessity of
sacrificing private opinions and partial
interests to the public good
and by a despair of seeing this
necessity diminished by delays or by new
experiments publius